{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033
{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}
}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red96\green96\blue96;}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\f0\fs24 Normal;}
{\s1\f1\fs36\b\cf2 Heading 1;}
{\s2\f1\fs28\b\cf2 Heading 2;}
}
\widowctrl\hyphauto
\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440
\paperw12240\paperh15840

{\pard\s1\f1\fs40\b\cf2\qc GATEWAY DATA AUTHORITY GUIDE\par}
{\pard\f1\fs24\qc Version 1.0\par}
{\pard\f1\fs24\qc Updated: March 17, 2026\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 1. Purpose\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 This guide explains how the non-cost support files were strengthened so they function as authority-side source artifacts rather than thin app feeder tables.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 2. Risk Register Standard\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The risk register now carries explicit source IDs, risk category, basis type, review date, confidence level, and a short traceability note. The intent is simple: each risk should tell the reader whether it came from a public oversight finding, a schedule-linked program judgment, or an internal technical concern.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Risks were not rewritten into generic analyst language. They remain operationally useful, but they now say where the judgment came from.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 3. Milestone Standard\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Milestones now distinguish between three date bases:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab direct public announcement date,\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab formal program baseline milestone,\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab schedule-plan NET date.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 This makes it much easier to see whether a milestone date is already public fact or still a planned schedule point.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 4. Document Tracker Standard\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The document tracker now includes authority tier, evidence role, source basis, and traceability note fields. This helps separate governing artifacts from analytical support artifacts and from supporting operational documents.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Recommended interpretation:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b governing}\tab Requirements, legal agreements, safety or compliance documents that establish obligations or baseline authority.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b analytical}\tab Cost, schedule, risk, engineering, and verification artifacts that explain status, judgments, or derived conclusions.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b supporting}\tab Plans, training products, campaign documents, and in-work artifacts that support execution but do not themselves define top-level authority.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 5. Source Register Standard\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Public and internal sources are now centralized in gateway_source_reference_register.csv. The source register is the citation backbone for the refreshed support layer. It is intentionally small and curated. Weak or speculative sources were not added.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 6. What Still Requires Judgment\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Not every Gateway source artifact can be made fully public-source-traceable because some items are planning judgments rather than externally announced facts. The upgraded files therefore label judgment clearly instead of pretending judgment is direct evidence.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The principle is:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab use direct public authority when it exists,\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab use internal controlled artifacts when they are the real governing source,\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab and label estimation or program judgment when neither exists.\par}

}
