{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033
{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}
}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red64\green64\blue64;}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\f0\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 Heading 1;}
{\s2\f1\fs28\b\cf2 Heading 2;}
{\s3\f1\fs24\b\cf2 Heading 3;}
}
\widowctrl\hyphauto
\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440
\paperw12240\paperh15840

{\pard\s1\f1\fs40\b\cf2\qc NASA LUNAR GATEWAY PROGRAM\par}
{\pard\f1\fs32\b\qc COST ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS DESCRIPTION (CARD)\par}
{\pard\f1\fs24\qc Version 1.0\par}
{\pard\f1\fs24\qc Approved: June 1, 2022\par}
{\pard\f1\fs24\qc NASA Johnson Space Center | Gateway Program Office\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs20\cf4\qc\i Document Control Number: JSC-70001-CARD-001 | Distribution: Unlimited\par}
\pard\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par

{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 1 - PROGRAM OVERVIEW\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 1.1  Purpose\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 This Cost Analysis Requirements Description (CARD) defines the scope, assumptions, boundaries, and data requirements for an Independent Cost Estimate (ICE) of the NASA Lunar Gateway program. The CARD is prepared in accordance with NASA Policy Requirement (NPR) 7120.5F, \i NASA Space Flight Program and Project Management Requirements\i0 , and NASA Cost Estimating Handbook (CEH) Version 4.0 (2015). This CARD satisfies the requirement for an ICE prior to the Gateway Program Commitment Agreement (PCA).\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The ICE is to be performed by an independent cost estimating organization (herein, the Aerospace Corporation serving as the NASA Independent Cost Assessment Group, NICAG). The ICE will be used to validate the NASA program office estimate and inform the NASA Associate Administrator\rquote s approval of the Gateway PCA baseline.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 1.2  Program Background and Authorization\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The Lunar Gateway (hereinafter \ldblquote Gateway\rdblquote ) is a NASA-led international space station to be placed in a Near-Rectilinear Halo Orbit (NRHO) around the Moon. Gateway serves as the staging platform for the Artemis program\rquote s sustained lunar exploration objectives. Authorization derives from:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab NASA Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10), directing a cis-lunar station;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab Space Policy Directive 1 (December 2017), directing NASA to return humans to the Moon;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab Space Policy Directive 6 (December 2020), directing development of the Gateway;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab National Space Exploration Campaign Report (September 2018).\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The Gateway Program Office (GPO) is located at NASA Johnson Space Center (JSC), Houston, Texas. Gateway is one of three major Artemis program elements, alongside the Space Launch System (SLS) and the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 1.3  International Partners\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Gateway is the most internationally collaborative human spaceflight program since the International Space Station (ISS). The following agencies have signed Implementing Arrangements with NASA:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab {\b European Space Agency (ESA):} Providing the International Habitation Module (I-HAB) and ESPRIT Module (Lunar Link and Lunar View), valued at approximately \u8364?1.0 billion;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab {\b Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA):} Providing the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) for I-HAB, valued at approximately \u165?15 billion;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab {\b Canadian Space Agency (CSA):} Providing Canadarm3 robotic systems, the largest Canadian space investment in history at approximately CAD $2.05 billion;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab {\b Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC, UAE):} Providing the Lunar Airlock, announced January 2024;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360\bullet\tab {\b Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC, UAE):} Contributing the first Arab astronaut mission to a lunar-vicinity space station.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Partner contributions are not directly included in the NASA program cost baseline but are reflected in this CARD for completeness. The NASA cost estimate covers only NASA-funded activities.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 2 - SYSTEM DESCRIPTION\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 2.1  Gateway Orbital Environment\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Gateway operates in a Near-Rectilinear Halo Orbit (NRHO), a member of the L2 Lyapunov/halo orbit family in the Earth-Moon three-body system. The selected NRHO has the following characteristics:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720\f2 Orbital Period:    6.56 days\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Perilune Altitude: ~3,366 km (above lunar south pole region)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Apolune Altitude:  ~71,100 km\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Orbit Eccentricity: ~0.869\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Inclination (lunar): ~90 degrees (polar)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Station-keeping dV: ~10 m/s per year (PPE AEPS)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 NRHO was selected for Gateway based on its near-stability (minimal station-keeping), continuous line-of-sight to Earth, access to the lunar south pole, and favorable geometry for HLS descent trajectories to the lunar surface. The orbit was confirmed by NASA\rquote s Advanced Exploration Systems (AES) program through extensive trajectory analysis.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 2.2  Gateway Modules and Elements\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Gateway consists of the following elements, in order of launch:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\s3\f1\fs24\b 2.2.1  Power and Propulsion Element (PPE)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The PPE is a solar electric propulsion (SEP) spacecraft built by Maxar Technologies under a $375 million firm-fixed-price contract. Key characteristics:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Contractor:          Maxar Technologies (Westminster, CO)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Contract Type:       Firm-Fixed-Price (FFP)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Contract Value:      $375,000,000\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Solar Power:         ~60 kW Beginning-of-Life (BOL)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Propulsion:          Advanced Electric Propulsion System (AEPS)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720                      Hall-effect ion thrusters (4 x 12.5 kW)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Propellant:          Xenon (quantity TBD for mission life)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Design Life:         15 years minimum\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Launch:              NET April 2027 on SpaceX Falcon Heavy\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The PPE will conduct a 12-month solo operations demonstration before HALO systems are activated, verifying propulsion performance in the lunar environment.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s3\f1\fs24\b 2.2.2  Habitation and Logistics Outpost (HALO)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 HALO is the first crewed pressurized module, providing initial habitation and logistics storage. Key characteristics:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 System Contractor:    Northrop Grumman Innovation Systems (NGIS)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Structural Subcon.:   Thales Alenia Space (Turin, Italy)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Phase A/B Contract:   $187,000,000 (June 2020)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Fab/Integration Con.: $935,000,000 (July 2021)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Total HALO Cost:      $1,122,000,000\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Contractor Charges:   ~$100M taken by NG against contract (2023)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Habitable Volume:     ~125 cubic meters (pressurized)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Crew Capacity:        Up to 4 crew for short-duration visits\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Docking Ports:        5 IDS-compatible ports\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Launch:               Co-launched with PPE on Falcon Heavy 2027\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 HALO represents the critical path element for Gateway Initial Capability. Schedule risk is high given the existing contractor losses and mass margin concern identified by GAO.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s3\f1\fs24\b 2.2.3  International Habitation Module (I-HAB)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 I-HAB is an ESA-led habitation expansion module with JAXA ECLSS contribution:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Lead Agency:      European Space Agency (ESA)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Prime Contractor: Thales Alenia Space (Turin/Rome, Italy)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ECLSS Provider:   JAXA (Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ESA Contract:     ~\u8364?565M (approx. $620M USD)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Launch:           Co-manifested on SLS Block 1B, Artemis IV (NET Sept 2028)\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s3\f1\fs24\b 2.2.4  ESPRIT Module (European System Providing Refueling Infrastructure and Telecommunications)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 ESPRIT consists of two elements delivered in two separate launches:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Prime Contractor: Thales Alenia Space (France/Italy) + OHB\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ESA Contract:     \u8364?296.5M initial + \u8364?164M amendment (Oct 2024)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720                   Total: \u8364?460.5M (~$505M USD)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Lunar Link:       External Ka-band comms; launched with HALO in 2027\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Lunar View:       Pressurized module with windows + xenon; NET 2029\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s3\f1\fs24\b 2.2.5  Lunar Airlock (UAE Contribution)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The Lunar Airlock is a Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre (UAE) contribution enabling EVA from Gateway:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Lead Agency:      MBRSC (Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre, UAE)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Prime Contractor: Thales Alenia Space\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Announcement:     January 2024\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Estimated Cost:   $195M (NASA analog estimate; not NASA-funded)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Target Launch:    NET 2030 on Artemis VI or commercial vehicle\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s3\f1\fs24\b 2.2.6  Canadarm3\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Lead Agency:      Canadian Space Agency (CSA)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Prime Contractor: MDA Space (Brampton, Ontario)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Total Investment: CAD $2.05 billion (~USD $1.5B)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Elements:         17m Large Arm + small dexterous arm\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Capability:       AI-enabled autonomous maintenance and inspection\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Target Delivery:  Artemis V mission, NET December 2029\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 3 - COST ESTIMATE SCOPE AND ASSUMPTIONS\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 3.1  Scope of Estimate\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The ICE shall estimate all NASA-funded costs for the Lunar Gateway program from Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 through FY2033, encompassing the period from formal development start through the first two years of sustained crewed operations. The Gateway Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is defined in gateway_wbs.csv (100 elements; three levels; NASA/SP-20210023927 compliant). Specifically, the ICE shall include:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (a) WBS 1.1 Program Management (7 Level 3 elements; FY2020-FY2033)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (b) WBS 1.2 Systems Engineering and Integration (8 Level 3 elements; includes mass properties 1.2.3 and V&V planning 1.2.8)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (c) WBS 1.3 Power and Propulsion Element (8 Level 3 elements; NASA oversight of Maxar FFP; Maxar contract value included in total)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (d) WBS 1.4 Habitation and Logistics Outpost (9 Level 3 elements; includes radiation shielding 1.4.9)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (e) WBS 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8 International Partner Elements (NASA oversight and integration costs only; partner development costs excluded per GR-07)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (f) WBS 1.9 Integration, Assembly, and Test (8 Level 3 elements; NGIS Gilbert AZ and KSC)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (g) WBS 1.10 Launch Services (6 Level 3 elements; Falcon Heavy FFP, SLS co-manifest integration, commercial launches)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (h) WBS 1.11 Ground Systems (6 Level 3 elements; MCC-H, DSN, FDF, cybersecurity 1.11.6)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (i) WBS 1.12 Mission Operations (8 Level 3 elements; through FY2033)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (j) Management Reserve and Unallocated Future Expenses (UFE) per WBS 1.0\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 {\b Not in scope} for the NASA ICE (covered by partner agencies independently):\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab ESA ESPRIT and I-HAB development costs (ESA-funded, ESA-estimated)\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab JAXA I-HAB ECLSS development costs\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab CSA/MDA Canadarm3 development costs\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab UAE Airlock development costs\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab SLS vehicle and Orion program costs\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab HLS (Starship) program costs\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 \bullet\tab Lunar surface systems\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 3.2  Estimate Basis and Methodology\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The Aerospace Corporation ICE shall employ the following methodologies, consistent with GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide (2020) best practices:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Analogy:} For HALO module, analogize to Cygnus pressurized cargo module (Northrop Grumman heritage) adjusted for human-rating requirements, life support, and deep-space qualification. Apply complexity adjustment factors for cis-lunar vs. LEO environment (+30-50% per NASA Cost-Estimating Parametric Model for Spacecraft, CEPAMS).\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Parametric:} Use NASA CEPAMS and the PRICE-H cost model for hardware elements. Apply relevant cost estimating relationships (CERs) from historical NASA spacecraft programs (ISS modules: Unity, Harmony, Tranquility; ATV; HTV).\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Engineering Build-Up (EBU):} For mission operations, use staffing plan multiplied by government and contractor labor rates from NASA schedule databases. Use historical ISS operations cost per crewed mission day as the analog baseline.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Contractor Data:} Review Northrop Grumman and Maxar Technologies Contract Performance Reports (CPRs) submitted monthly under EVM requirements. HALO cost-at-completion (CAC) derived from CPR data adjusted for assessed realism.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 3.3  Cost Estimate Basis Ground Rules\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The ICE shall adhere to the following ground rules:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b GR-01:} All costs expressed in then-year (TY) dollars unless otherwise specified. FY2022 base year for constant-year analysis. Escalation applied per OMB Circular A-94 Table C inflation indices.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b GR-02:} Full cost accounting per NASA Full Cost Policy; includes civil servant labor at applicable JSC blended rates (estimated $285,000/FTE-year FY2022), overhead, and G&A.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b GR-03:} No reserve included in ICE point estimate; ICE S-curve to show 50th and 70th percentile cost risk ranges.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b GR-04:} Launch vehicle costs include only the $331.8M SpaceX Falcon Heavy contract value for PPE/HALO. No escalation applied to FFP contract value.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b GR-05:} PPE FFP contract value ($375M) included as-is; ICE provides independent assessment of whether the FFP price is reasonable, not a re-estimate.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b GR-06:} Cost phasing based on NASA-provided IMS; if IMS is considered unrealistic, ICE team may adjust phasing with rationale.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b GR-07:} Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) costs included where NASA-provided; international partner GFE excluded.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 4 - TECHNICAL ASSUMPTIONS\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 4.1  System-Level Technical Assumptions\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-01:} PPE achieves 60 kW beginning-of-life (BOL) solar power generation, degrading to ~45 kW end-of-life (EOL) at 15 years. AEPS thrusters achieve 12.5 kW each at nominal operating power.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-02:} PPE/HALO combined launch mass does not exceed Falcon Heavy Block 5 Expendable mass-to-C3 capability. Mass margin positive at time of ICE. {\b NOTE: This assumption is flagged as high risk per GAO-24-106878 (July 2024); mass margin is currently near-zero and may be negative.}\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-03:} NRHO station-keeping delta-V budget is 10 m/s per year; PPE carries sufficient xenon for 15-year mission life plus 25% margin.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-04:} HALO ECLSS meets NASA-STD-3001 requirements for crew habitation for mission durations of up to 30 days per crewed visit.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-05:} Gateway is designed for a nominal uncrewed duration of 200 days between crewed visits, with autonomous fault management covering all critical systems.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-06:} I-HAB launches co-manifested on SLS Block 1B as the secondary payload with Orion on Artemis IV. SLS Block 1B performance to TLI is assumed sufficient for the Orion + I-HAB mass.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-07:} Canadarm3 achieves TRL 6 for autonomous inspection at CDR; full AI autonomy achieved by first crewed Canadarm3 operation (Artemis V, 2029).\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b TA-08:} Xenon on-orbit transfer from ESPRIT Lunar View to PPE achieves TRL 6 prior to ESPRIT launch; first transfer demonstration completed within 90 days of Lunar View docking.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 4.2  Mass Budget Summary (Current Best Estimate)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Element              CBE Mass (kg)    Margin (kg)    Margin (%)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ------------------------------------------------\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 PPE (dry)             4,200             +420           +10%\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 PPE Xenon Propellant   2,000              N/A           N/A\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 HALO (pressurized)    10,150            -225           -2.2%\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ESPRIT Lunar Link        180              +18           +10%\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 TOTAL (PPE+HALO+LL)   16,530            -120           -0.7%\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Falcon Heavy Capacity 16,800 kg to C3=0 km2/s2\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ------------------------------------------------\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 NET MARGIN:           -120 to +270 kg (depending on trajectory)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\i Source: Estimated from GAO-24-106878 findings (July 2024) indicating near-zero or negative mass margin; actual classified program numbers vary.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 5 - SCHEDULE ASSUMPTIONS\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 5.1  Program Schedule Baseline\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The schedule assumptions below reflect the NASA Program Commitment Agreement (PCA) baseline as of FY2022, updated where applicable for known changes through early FY2025. The ICE shall use this schedule as the baseline and independently assess realism.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Key Schedule Milestones (NET Dates) - IMS Document CD-025:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-001  Program Authorization (SPD-1):          November 2017     [COMPLETE]\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-002  System Requirements Review (SRR):        June 2019         [COMPLETE] (T-011)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-003  PPE Contract Award - Maxar $375M FFP:    May 23, 2019      [COMPLETE] (T-026)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-007  HALO Fabrication Contract - NGIS $935M:  July 9, 2021      [COMPLETE] (T-049)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-009  Program Commitment Agreement (PCA):      June 1, 2022      [COMPLETE] (T-004)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-010  PPE Critical Design Review (CDR):        September 2022    [COMPLETE] (T-029)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-011  HALO Critical Design Review (CDR):       November 2022     [COMPLETE] (T-050)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-014  HALO Structure Delivery (TAS Turin):     September 2024    [COMPLETE] (T-062)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-015  PPE Delivery to NGIS Gilbert AZ:         February 2025     (T-045)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-016  I-HAB Critical Design Review (CDR):      September 2025    (T-078)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-017  PPE-HALO Mechanical Integration:         September 2025    (T-118)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-019  Acoustic and Vibration Test Complete:    May 2026          (T-121)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-020  Thermal Vacuum Test Complete:            September 2026    (T-122)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-023  Launch Readiness Review (LRR):           November 2026     (T-131)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-024  PPE-HALO Launch on Falcon Heavy:         April 30, 2027    (T-132)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-026  NRHO Insertion and Orbit Verification:   February 2028     (T-135)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-027  Gateway Ready for Crew (IOT Complete):   April 2028        (T-137)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-029  Artemis IV Launch - SLS Block 1B:        October 1, 2028   (T-139)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-030  First Crewed Docking at HALO:            October 6, 2028   (T-140)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-032  ESPRIT Lunar View Launch:                July 1, 2029      (T-096)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-034  Canadarm3 Launch on Artemis V:           March 1, 2030     (T-116)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-036  UAE Airlock Launch:                      October 1, 2030   (T-106)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 M-037  Gateway Full Initial Operational Cap.:   June 1, 2031      (T-165)\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 5.2  Schedule Risk Factors\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b SR-01:} {\b Mass Margin Impact on Schedule (Risk R-001, score 20).} GAO-24-106878 found that PPE and HALO must launch at least 12 months before Artemis IV (M-029, October 2028) to allow adequate checkout time. Current committed launch date is April 2027 (M-024, T-132), providing approximately 18 months of margin. Mass reduction rework per T-009 tiger team is on critical path; delays to T-009 actions can compress T-121 through T-131 environmental test and launch campaign window.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b SR-02:} {\b SLS Block 1B / EUS Readiness (Risk R-013, score 10).} The I-HAB co-manifested launch (M-029, T-139) is dependent on SLS Block 1B with the Exploration Upper Stage (EUS). EUS development carries schedule risk (R-013). Any slip to Artemis IV availability affects I-HAB delivery and first crewed Gateway milestone M-030.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b SR-03:} {\b HALO ECLSS Qualification.} HALO ECLSS qualification testing has been identified as a potential late schedule driver. ISS ECLSS qualification took 4 years; HALO schedule allocates 3 years. ICE shall assess realism.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b SR-04:} {\b Environmental Test Anomaly.} One anomaly during acoustic or thermal vacuum testing requiring hardware replacement or redesign could add 6-12 months to schedule.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 6 - DEVELOPMENT APPROACH\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 6.1  Acquisition Strategy\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Gateway employs a mixed acquisition strategy reflecting the program\rquote s unique international character and commercial opportunity:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b PPE:} Firm-Fixed-Price (FFP) contract with Maxar Technologies. The FFP structure was used to incentivize commercial innovation and leverage Maxar\rquote s commercial satellite bus heritage. Price risk is borne by the contractor.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b HALO:} Cost-reimbursable for Phase A/B ($187M) transitioning to Firm-Fixed-Price for fabrication and integration ($935M). The FFP approach on HALO has resulted in approximately $100M in contractor losses (2023) due to scope growth and design changes driven by evolving NASA requirements. The ICE shall assess whether the current contract structure is executable at the committed price.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Launch Services:} FFP commercial contract with SpaceX for Falcon Heavy. This represents the lowest-risk contract type for a well-defined launch service.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Systems Engineering and Mission Operations:} Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) support service contracts with NASA JSC civil servants as technical leads. Contractors provide engineering support under omnibus contracts (e.g., JETS, ODIN).\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 6.2  Heritage and New Development Balance\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The table below summarizes heritage vs. new development for major Gateway elements:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Element    Heritage Basis                  New Dev Fraction\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ---------------------------------------------------------------\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 PPE        Maxar commercial satellite bus    ~40% new (AEPS, ROSA)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 HALO       Cygnus cargo module (TAS)         ~60% new (ECLSS, avionics)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 I-HAB      ATV/Columbus heritage (TAS)       ~55% new (deep-space life support)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 ESPRIT     No direct heritage                ~75% new\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Airlock    Quest ISS Airlock (analog)        ~65% new\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Canadarm3  Canadarm2/SSRMS (MDA)             ~50% new (AI, longer reach)\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Higher new development fractions are associated with greater cost and schedule risk. The ICE shall apply appropriate cost risk multipliers based on heritage fraction and TRL of key subsystems at time of contract award.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 7 - PRODUCTION ASSUMPTIONS\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 7.1  Production Quantity\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Gateway is a one-of-a-kind development (quantity = 1 per module type). There is no planned production run for any Gateway module. The ICE shall therefore apply no learning curve benefits to hardware cost estimates. Any repetitive elements (e.g., docking adapters, solar array panels) shall use appropriate repetition factors at the component level only.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 7.2  Long-Lead Items\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The following items are designated long-lead and must be procured early to avoid schedule risk:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (a) Xenon propellant (100+ kg lot); global supply constraint; early Air Products and Chemicals procurement;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (b) AEPS Hall-effect thrusters (Aerojet Rocketdyne); 36-month lead time from order to delivery;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (c) Advanced solar array flexible blanket materials (MMA Design/MDA);\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (d) Space-grade microprocessors and FPGAs (radiation-hardened); subject to export controls and limited suppliers;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (e) High-pressure composite overwrapped pressure vessels (COPVs) for xenon tanks.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 8 - OPERATIONS ASSUMPTIONS\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 8.1  Operational Phases\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Gateway operations are divided into three phases:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Phase 1 - Uncrewed Operations (2027-2028):} Following PPE/HALO launch, Gateway operates autonomously in NRHO for approximately 9-10 months during the low-thrust transit and initial checkout. Staffing: reduced ground team (~25 flight controllers for critical events, 8 for nominal monitoring).\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Phase 2 - Initial Crewed Operations (2028-2031):} Artemis IV through Artemis VI; crewed visits of 30-90 days. Staffing: ~300 personnel for peak crewed operations (flight directors, controllers, MOD support). Uncrewed periods between missions: reduced to 50 personnel.\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Phase 3 - Sustained Operations (2031+):} Full Gateway IOC with all modules; sustained mission tempo of 2 crewed missions per year. Staffing optimized based on operational experience.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 8.2  Analog: ISS Operations Cost Basis\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 ISS annual operations cost is approximately $3.0-4.0 billion (FY2022 dollars) for a 12-person-year crew complement. Gateway operates at ~1/10th the scale of ISS (4 crew per visit, 2-3 visits per year, each 30-90 days). Applying a 10% ISS operations cost proxy suggests annual Gateway operations cost of $300-400M at steady-state. This is consistent with the NASA FY2025 budget request structure and the $788M FY2026-FY2033 operations estimate in the program plan.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 9 - COST RISK ASSESSMENT\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 9.1  Risk-Adjusted Cost Estimate Requirement\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The ICE shall include a Monte Carlo cost risk simulation (minimum 10,000 iterations) producing an S-curve showing probability of not exceeding estimated costs. The ICE shall present the following confidence levels:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 Confidence Level    Estimated Cost (TBD by ICE team)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 50th Percentile     (Point Estimate)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 70th Percentile     (NASA planning standard for reserves)\par}
{\pard\f2\fs20\li720 80th Percentile     (High confidence bound)\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 9.2  Key Cost Risk Drivers\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 Based on program status and GAO-24-106878, the following are assessed as primary cost risk drivers ranked by expected cost impact:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Rank 1 - HALO Mass Reduction Rework:} Mass reduction to meet Falcon Heavy performance requires design changes and re-qualification testing; estimated range of additional cost $50M-$300M;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Rank 2 - HALO ECLSS Performance Rework:} ECLSS performance shortfalls may require additional development and test iterations; estimated additional cost $30M-$180M;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Rank 3 - Mission Operations Scope Growth:} Operational complexity exceeding baseline may require additional staffing; range $50M-$200M;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Rank 4 - PPE Propulsion System Anomaly:} AEPS thruster failure during solo demo requiring redesign; range $20M-$150M;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 {\b Rank 5 - Launch Delay / Additional Falcon Heavy Mission:} If mass cannot be reduced, dedicated second launch for deferred hardware; range $250M-$450M additional.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 10 - DATA REQUIREMENTS\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 10.1  Data to be Provided to ICE Team\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The Gateway Program Office shall provide the following data to the Aerospace Corporation ICE team (document CD-042) no later than 60 days prior to the ICE start date:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (a) Gateway Integrated Master Schedule (CD-025), Primavera P6 format, 165 tasks T-001 through T-165;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (b) Contract Performance Reports (CPRs) for all cost-reimbursable contracts, 24-month history;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (c) NASA Civil Servant staffing plan by WBS and fiscal year;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (d) Gateway Mass Properties Report (CD-011) with current best estimate mass, power, and performance specifications; quarterly update;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (e) Gateway Program Risk Register (CD-019) with 22 risks, likelihood/consequence scores, and mitigation cost estimates;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (f) Gateway Integrated Financial Plan (CD-026), cost phasing plan by WBS and fiscal year;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (g) Prior cost estimates: Gateway Program Cost Estimate and this ICE (CD-041/CD-042);\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (h) Interface Requirements Document (CD-004) and all element Interface Control Documents (CD-005 through CD-010);\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (i) Earned Value Management data: BCWS, BCWP, ACWP, BAC, EAC by WBS per CD-026;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (j) Contractor proposals and basis of estimate documents for all active contracts per CDRL.\par}
\pard\par

{\pard\s2\f1\fs28\b 10.2  Deliverables from ICE Team\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (a) Draft ICE Report for program office review and comment;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (b) Final ICE Report including program office comments disposition;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (c) ICE Cost Model (spreadsheet or parametric model) fully documented;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (d) Cost risk analysis with Monte Carlo S-curve;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (e) Brief to NASA AA for Exploration Systems Development;\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 (f) Reconciliation memo comparing ICE to program estimate, explaining all variances >10%.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\s1\f1\fs32\b\cf2 SECTION 11 - REFERENCES AND SOURCES\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24 The following sources were used in preparation of this CARD and should be consulted by the ICE team:\par}
\pard\par
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [1] GAO-24-106878, \i Artemis Programs: NASA Should Document and Communicate Plans to Address Gateway\rquote s Mass Risk\i0 , July 2024.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [2] NASA FY2025 Congressional Budget Justification, Volume 3: Space Operations.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [3] NASA Cost Estimating Handbook (CEH), Version 4.0, 2015.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [4] GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide (GAO-20-195G), March 2020.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [5] NASA/SP-20210023927, NASA Work Breakdown Structure Handbook, 2021.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [6] OMB Circular A-94, Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit-Cost Analysis.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [7] NPR 7120.5F, NASA Space Flight Program and Project Management Requirements.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [8] NASA-STD-3001, NASA Space Human Factors and Habitability Standard.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [9] NASA press release, \i NASA Awards Artemis Contract for Lunar Gateway Power, Propulsion\i0 , May 23, 2019.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [10] NASA press release, \i NASA, Northrop Grumman Finalize Moon Outpost Living Quarters Contract\i0 , July 9, 2021.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [11] SpaceNews, \i Northrop charges on lunar Gateway module program reach $100 million\i0 , 2024.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [12] IAC-24 Gateway Program Development Progress (NTRS 20240012550), 2024.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [13] ESA Gateway: Lunar I-Hab fact sheet, esa.int.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs24\li360 [14] Thales Alenia Space press release, ESPRIT module amendment, October 2024.\par}
\pard\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdr0\par
{\pard\f0\fs20\cf4\qc\i This document is approved for unlimited distribution. Portions of this document may be marked For Official Use Only (FOUO) in program-controlled versions.\par}
{\pard\f0\fs20\cf4\qc\i NASA Johnson Space Center | Gateway Program Office | 2101 NASA Pkwy, Houston TX 77058\par}
{\pard\f0\fs20\cf4\qc\i Document JSC-70001-CARD-001 | Version 1.0 | Approved June 1, 2022\par}
}
